---
layout:     post
title:      Clojurescript & Node on AWS Lambda
summary:    Made easy with Leiningen.
author:     Moe Aboulkheir
date:   2015-07-05 11:19:00
categories: clojure clojurescript aws lambda node lein
tags: clojure clojurescript aws lambda node lein
---

## Background

[Amazon's Lambda](http://aws.amazon.com/documentation/lambda/) service executes
functions in response to events.  Which isn't all that interesting: an abacus
executes functions in response to events.  What makes Lambda appealing is the
attitude it takes toward disobedience.

I don't like functions.  They're needy.  I experience their suffering as
something like music.  Through precise constraining of resources,
Lambda<sup>1</sup> promises an environment in which the flourishing of any
number of functions can be inhibited - inexpensively, and repeatably.

And, such is my hope, _collaboratively_.  As a means of attracting potential
inquisitors, I've written some
[software](https://github.com/nervous-systems/cljs-lambda) which makes the whole
process embarrassingly easy.  It's covered step-by-step below.

<div class="footnote"><sup>1</sup> <small>I don't care where you went to school
- you'll type <i>lambada</i> eventually. </small>
</div>

## But, The Guacamole Costs Extra

Lambda supports two runtimes - Java 8, and Node.  Which is to say, you could run
pretty much any language you want.  I'm assuming you'd want to run Clojure.  So,
why not Clojure?

Lambda is metered by a combination of memory allocation and time.  Instances
(and their JVMs) will _sometimes_ be reused for proximate requests, with no
guarantees.

On warmed up instances, Clojure/JVM is clearly going to beat Clojurescript/Node
on execution times.  That said, Clojure's warm-up cost on fresh instances is
likely to be high<sup>1,2</sup>.  Our uncertainty around the frequency of the
warm-ups will trammel our ability to reason about overall performance and cost.

Comparatively, Clojurescript is attractive on Lambda as it allows us to trade a
worse best-case runtime<sup>3</sup> (warmed-up instance) for greatly improved worst-case
runtime (cold instance)<sup>4</sup>.

<div class="footnote">
<sup>1</sup> <small>With ahead-of-time compilation.  Without,
it's not worth considering.</small>
<br />
<sup>2</sup> <small>This was borne out by imprecise and,
frankly, distracted experimentation.</small><br />
<sup>3</sup> <small>Like, say, ~20ms for Clojurescript vs. ~1ms for Clojure with the <i>return-immediately</i> example I was benchmarking.  This isn't dramatic, given that Lambda time is billed in 100ms increments.</small><br />
<sup>4</sup> <small>e.g. half a second, rather than multiple seconds, again for the null function.</small>
</div>

## Leiningen 0day

Enough adjectives, let's beat up some verbs.

In addition to [Leiningen](http://leiningen.org/), you'll need a recent Node
runtime, and a local installation of the [AWS CLI
interface](https://github.com/aws/aws-cli).

We'll be using the [cljs-lambda](https://github.com/nervous-systems/cljs-lambda)
Lein plugin, which delegates to the AWS CLI.  The credentials, target region,
etc. will be determined by the CLI's configuration.  So, run [aws
configure](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-getting-started.html)
if you haven't.

### Create a  Leiningen Project

Let's pick any old name:

```sh
$ lein new cljs-lambda thelema
```

The `cljs-lambda` template generates a Leiningen project file, and a
Clojurescript module with a single function in it.  Let's look a little closer
at the sections in the generated project file (`thelema/project.clj`):

#### `:plugins`

```clojure
[lein-cljsbuild ...]
[lein-npm ..]
[io.nervous/lein-cljs-lambda ...]
```

The `npm` and `cljsbuild` plugins are used by `cljs-lambda` to resolve Node
dependencies and output Javascript source, respectively.

#### `:cljs-lambda`
```clojure
{:defaults {:role "FIXME"}
 :functions
  [{:name   "work-magic"
    :invoke thelema.core/work-magic}]}
```

We're informing the plugin of the functions we're exposing via Lambda: each
function requires the `:name`, `:invoke` and `:role` parameters, with the latter
being the ARN of the [ IAM](http://aws.amazon.com/iam/) role we're running the
function under.

### Create an IAM Role

If you've played around with Lambda before, you may have something to hand - or
maybe you fancy your chances with "FIXME".  Otherwise, it's likely going to be
simpler to delegate to the plugin:

```sh
~/thelema$ lein cljs-lambda default-iam-role
```

This creates a role sufficient for a minimal Lambda function (log writing,
etc.), using your local AWS CLI install.<sup>1</sup>

Afterward, the resulting ARN is written into the project file, due to
 accumulating doubts around your ability to perform remedial tasks.

<div class="footnote">
<sup>1</sup> <small>If you're doing anything other than
printing to the console (e.g. trying to connect to another AWS service), the
role will require additional privileges.</small>
</div>

### Inspect the Function

There's enough to cover here without assuming the burden of writing interesting,
or functional code:

```clojure
(ns thelema.core
  (:require [cljs-lambda.util :refer [async-lambda-fn]])
  (:require-macros [cljs.core.async.macros :refer [go]]))

(def ^:expose work-magic
  (async-lambda-fn
   (fn [{:keys [variety]} context]
     (go
       (js/Error. (str "I don't yet know how to work '"
                       variety
                       "' magic"))))))
```

#### Javascript

For those unfamiliar with Lambda's Node execution model: a Lambda function
expects to be pointed at a Javascript function accepting two arguments (which, I
guess, is all Javascript functions): _event_ and _context_.

_event_ is whatever data was passed into the function - it's either `null`, or
an object constructed from the input JSON.  _context_ provides request-specific
utility behaviour, such as completion signalling.

#### Clojurescript

`async-lambda-fn`, above ([take a
look](https://github.com/nervous-systems/cljs-lambda/blob/5ed2f05ec53497fa4352523fe9e6e04a7b53a207/cljs-lambda/src/cljs_lambda/util.cljs#L34),
it's tiny) is allowing an asynchronous channel to take the place of explicit
callbacks.  If you don't like it, you can pass _context_ around, and call the
explicit `cljs-lambda.util/succeed!` and `fail!` functions.

If the value read from the `go` channel is a Javascript `Error` (as in the
example) the function will fail, and the client'll get a stacktrace.  Otherwise,
the value will be serialized to JSON and passed on.

### Upload The Function

```sh
~/thelema$ lein cljs-lambda deploy
```

This'll build your project and smash it into a zip file. A Lambda function
named `work-magic` will be created remotely (if it doesn't exist), and
associated with the source of `thelema.core/work-magic` from within the uploaded
zip.

Subsequent `deploy` invocations will re-compile, and update the Lambda side.

### Run It

For convenience, you can execute any of your Lambda functions remotely using the
plugin's CLI:

```sh
~/thelema$ lein cljs-lambda invoke work-magic \
>            '{"variety": "the most black"}'
```

We'll see something like this:

```clojure
REPORT  Duration 18.22 ms ... Max Memory Used 42 MB

{:errorMessage
 "I don't yet know how to work 'the most black' magic",
 :errorType "Error",
 :stackTrace
 [...
  "/var/task/out/thelema/core.cljs:8:6"
  ...
  "processImmediate [as _immediateCallback] (timers.js:354:15)"]}
```

Which is what we intended.  The stacktrace extends from our Clojurescript
function down into the Lambda Node dispatcher.

Note the plausible-looking line numbers.

### Done! What Else

`cljs-lambda` supports a bunch more features:

 - Specify execution time & memory limits in your project file
 - Sync function configuration without re-deploying code
 - Define many Lambda functions in a single Clojurescript project

[The cljs-lambda README](https://github.com/nervous-systems/cljs-lambda) has
more details.

